docs(pie-storybook): DSW-2998 add CSS Variables page (#2361)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-storybook/stories/introduction/css-variables.mdx

import { Meta } from '@storybook/addon-docs';

<Meta title="Introduction/CSS variables" />

# CSS variables

> 

Reviewer: It might be worth adding a bit at the start saying that sometimes our components expose CSS variables for users to override - just to set the context for the rest of the page. Up to you though!

Author: Good call! 👍

The main purpose of using CSS variables is to provide a straightforward mechanism for consumers to style and adapt PIE web components to their specific needs.

It provides an abstraction layer that allows users to customise the appearance of components. Instead of requiring to resort to complex CSS selectors to override styles in the Shadow DOM, these variables can be used to control components visual aspects.

## Usage benefits

> - **Easy customization**: Consumers can easily modify the appearance of the components by simply redefining the CSS variables that were exposed. CSS variables offer a well-defined public API for styling, allowing controlled access to visual aspects of the component without risking to break the internal structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Easy customisation**: Consumers can easily modify the appearance of the components by simply redefining the CSS variables that were exposed. CSS variables offer a well-defined public API for styling, allowing controlled access to visual aspects of the component without risking breaking the internal structure.
```

> - **Readability and maintainability**: Descriptive variable names such as `--button-background-color` are easy to understand and maintain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Readability and maintainability**: Descriptive variable names such as `--toast-provider-z-index` are easy to understand and maintain.
```

## Usage benefits

- **Easy customisation**: Consumers can easily modify the appearance of the components by simply redefining the CSS variables that were exposed. CSS variables offer a well-defined public API for styling, allowing controlled access to visual aspects of the component without risking breaking the internal structure.

- **Readability and maintainability**: Descriptive variable names such as `--toast-provider-z-index` are easy to understand and maintain.

- **Dynamic styling with JavaScript**: CSS variables can be easily manipulated via JavaScript. This creates possibilities for updating values depending on the application state or other specific conditions.

## Examples

CSS variables provided by the component can be overridden using standard CSS techniques.

Inline style:

```html
 <pie-toast-provider style="--toast-provider-z-index: 7000;"></pie-toast-provider>
```

CSS selector:

```html
 <pie-toast-provider class="toast-override"></pie-toast-provider>
```

```css
.toast-override {
  --toast-provider-z-index: 7000;
}
```

## How to start using CSS variables

> We're currently updating our components and the respective documentation pages to provide a dedicated section with the list of CSS variables.

Reviewer 2: I am not aware of any components at the moment that need updating 👀 as those that use CSS variables (only the toast provider so far) already have the table. Maybe we can just add a note saying components that expose CSS variables will have a dedicated table with the values instead?

Author: > I am not aware of any components at the moment that need updating
I'm indirectly referring to components lacking variables exposed in the `:host`. We talked about that yesterday and currently only the toast-provider and icon-button have that.
